.TH EUKLEIDES 1 2010/02/16 Eukleides "Eukleides Manual"
.SH NAME
eukleides - Eukleides interpreter to PostScript
.SH SYNOPSIS
\fBeukleides\fP [\fIOPTION\fP...] \fIFILE\fP
.SH DESCRIPTION
Eukleides is a computer language devoted to elementary plane geometry.
It aims to be a fairly comprehensive system to create geometric figures,
either static or dynamic.
It allows to handle geometric types of data like points, vectors,
lines, circles, or conics.
.PP
The \fBeukleides\fP program is useful to convert Eukleides scripts
into Encapsulated PostScript files.
It may also interpret scripts using interactive variables to multi-page
PostScript documents which can later be transformed into animated GIFs
using for instance ImageMagick's
.BR convert (1).
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
\fB-l\fP, \fB--locale\fP[=\fILANG\fP]
Use localized keywords.
With no argument given, the current locale is set to the value of the
LANG environment variable.
Otherwise \fILANG\fP has to be a valid locale identifier, e.g. 'fr_FR'
or 'fr_FR.utf8', depending on the default charmap. 
This feature may be disabled.
.TP
\fB-o\fP, \fB--output\fP[=\fIOUTPUTFILE\fP]
Set an output file name.
With no argument given, the output stream is set to standard output.
.TP
\fB-#\fP, \fB--interactive\fP=\fISTRING\fP
Modify interactive variables.
.TP
\fB-a\fP, \fB--animate\fP=\fISTRING\fP
Animate interactive script.
.TP
\fB-b\fP, \fB--batchmode\fP[=\fIDATAFILE\fP]
Don't stop for input.
If given, use \fIDATAFILE\fP instead of standard input.
.TP
\fB-v\fP, \fB--version\fP
Print version number and exit.
.TP
\fB-h\fP, \fB--help\fP
Print immediate help and exit.
.SH AUTHOR
Christian Obrecht <obrecht \fIat\fP eukleides \fIdot\fP org>.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
Eukleides info pages for full documentation.
.br
.BR euktopst (1),
.BR euktoeps (1),
.BR euktotex (1),
.BR euktopdf (1).
