.TH EUKTOEPS 1 2010/02/16 Eukleides "Eukleides Manual"
.SH NAME
euktoeps - Eukleides to Encapsulated PostScript converter
.SH SYNOPSIS
\fBeuktoeps\fP [\fIOPTION\fP...] \fIFILE\fP
.SH DESCRIPTION
Eukleides is a computer language devoted to elementary plane geometry.
It aims to be a fairly comprehensive system to create geometric figures,
either static or dynamic.
It allows to handle geometric types of data like points, vectors,
lines, circles, or conics.
.PP
The \fBeuktoeps\fP script is useful to convert Eukleides scripts into
Encapsulated PostScript figures.
It runs the
.BR euktopst (1)
interpreter, then adds appropriate preamble and ending to the resulting
code, last runs
.BR latex (1)
and
.BR dvips (1).
Hence, it is an alternative to the
.BR eukleides (1)
program when mathematics typesetting is required.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
\fB-i\fP, \fB--include\fP=\fISTRING\fP
Include LaTeX directives in preamble.
.TP
\fB-l\fP, \fB--locale\fP[=\fILANG\fP]
Use localized keywords.
With no argument given, the current locale is set to the value of the
LANG environment variable.
Otherwise \fILANG\fP has to be a valid locale identifier, e.g. 'fr_FR'
or 'fr_FR.utf8', depending on the default charmap. 
This feature may be disabled.
.TP
\fB-#\fP, \fB--interactive\fP=\fISTRING\fP
Modify interactive variables.
.TP
\fB-d\fP, \fB--data\fP=\fIDATAFILE\fP
Use \fIDATAFILE\fP for input.
This option is essential when using input functions, since
.BR euktopst (1)
is run in batch mode.
.TP
\fB-v\fP, \fB--version\fP
Print version number and exit.
.TP
\fB-h\fP, \fB--help\fP
Print immediate help and exit.
.SH AUTHOR
Christian Obrecht <obrecht \fIat\fP eukleides \fIdot\fP org>.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
Eukleides info pages for full documentation.
.br
.BR eukleides (1),
.BR euktopst (1),
.BR euktotex (1),
.BR euktopdf (1).
