
                        EUKLEIDES version 1.5.4

                Copyright (c) Christian Obrecht 2004-2010

                         obrecht@eukleides.org

1. PURPOSE

Eukleides is a computer language devoted to elementary plane geometry.
It aims to be a fairly comprehensive system to create geometric figures,
either static or dynamic. It allows to handle basic types of data:
numbers and strings, as well as geometric types of data: points,
vectors, sets (of points), lines, circles, and conics.

    A Eukleides script usually consists in a declarative part where
objects are defined, and a descriptive part where objects are drawn.
Nonetheless, Eukleides is also a full featured programming language,
providing conditional and iterative structures, user defined functions,
modules, etc. Hence, it can easily be extended. A quick start page and
some code samples are available on-line (www.eukleides.org), in addition
to the Eukleides Reference Manual which is maintained as a Texinfo
manual.

    The Eukleides distribution provides two distinct interpreters:
'eukleides' and 'euktopst,' and three shell scripts: 'euktoeps',
'euktotex', and 'euktopdf'. The former interpreter produces Encapsulated
PostScript (EPS). The later, which is run by the scripts, produces
TeXable PSTricks macros. The 'euktoeps' script is an alternative to
'eukleides' when mathematics typesetting is required. The two other
scripts are useful when using Eukleides together with LaTeX.

    Bug reports as well as comments or contributions should be sent to
the author of Eukleides, Christian Obrecht (obrecht@eukleides.org).

2. LICENSE

This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it
under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by the
Free Software Foundation; either version 3 of the License, or (at your
option) any later version.

    See file COPYING for more details.

3. INSTALL

The present Eukleides distribution was developed on a Debian GNU/Linux
platform. It should build on most of the recent Unices, provided some
common tools are installed. For instance, when using a Debian based
distribution, you may need to install the following packages: flex,
bison, libreadline-dev, texinfo. When enabling localized keywords, you
may additionally need to install gettext and perl.

    Eukleides binaries are reported to build on Mac OS X with disabled
localization feature. Since there are also some issues with info
documentation, it is recommended to comment out the 'DOC' target in
'Config' and use the documentation available online instead. Any help on
solving these problems is welcome.
 
    As usual, type 'make' and 'make install' on command line. This will
install the interpreters, the scripts, the 'eukleides' LaTeX package,
the available locales, the reference manual (in info format, PDF, and
HTML format), and the man pages. Default paper format for PDF is A4.
Documentation in HTML format is split in multiple files by default.

    The default installation prefix is '/usr/local/'. When using this
prefix make sure the environment variables INFOPATH, MANPATH, and
TEXMFHOME are properly set.

    The build settings may be altered by editing the 'Config' file.

4. LOCALIZATION

Eukleides allows to use localized keywords in scripts. To add a new
language, create the 'eukleides.pot' template file by typing 'make pot'
in the 'po/' directory, rename it appropriately and fill out the empty
fields. Since po files are used to generate locale documentation, avoid
changing the file's structure.
